Add visual debugging section to Flutter Inspector page (#6017)
flutter/website: src/docs/development/tools/devtools/visual-debugging.md

---
title: Visual debugging
description: A guide to Flutter's visual debugging functionality.
---

The Flutter Inspector provides several options for visually debugging your app.
These are the options available from the inspector within the DevTools.

> ## Slow Animations

Reviewer: We use sentence case for headers.

```suggestion
## Slow animations
```

When enabled, this option runs animations 5 times slower for easier visual
inspection.
This can be useful if you want to carefully observe and tweak an animation that
doesn’t look quite right.

This can also be set in code:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/scheduler.dart' 

timeDilation = 5.0;
```
 

> This will slow the animations by 5x.

Reviewer: Avoid future tense.

```suggestion
This slows the animations by 5x.
```

> ### See also

Reviewer: Always have at least one line of text after a header.

```suggestion
### See also

The following links provide more info.
```

> * [Flutter documentation: timeDilation property](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/scheduler/timeDilation.html) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Flutter documentation: timeDilation property]({{site.api}}/flutter/scheduler/timeDilation.html) 
```

> ### Example

Reviewer: These are GIF files, not actual example code. I'd move the before and after GIF files up to where it talks about how to slow animations (and delete the "Example" header).

```suggestion
The following GIF files show before and after slowing an animation.
```

Author: Agreed, but I don't think it's important that they're GIFs, so going with "The following screen recordings show before and after slowing an animation" if that's okay

Reviewer: Sure.

![Screen recording showing normal animation speed]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-slow-animations-disabled.gif @path %})
![Screen recording showing slowed animation speed]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-slow-animations-enabled.gif @path %})

> ## Show Guidelines
> 
> This option draws guidelines on your app which show render boxes, alignments,
> paddings, scroll views, clippings and spacers.
> 
> This tool can be used for better understanding your layout, for instance
> finding unwanted paddings or understanding how widgets are being aligned.
> 
> You can also enable this in code:

Reviewer: - I added "layout" to the header, otherwise it sounds like a guide for a performance.
- 
```suggestion
## Show layout guidelines

This feature draws guidelines over your app that displays render boxes, alignments,
paddings, scroll views, clippings and spacers.

This tool can be used for better understanding your layout, for instance
finding unwanted paddings or understanding how widgets are being aligned.

You can also enable this in code:
```

```dart
debugPaintSizeEnabled = true;
```

> ### Render Boxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Render boxes
```

Widgets that draw to the screen create a [render box][]; they’re the 
building blocks of Flutter layouts. They’re shown with a bright blue border:

![Screenshot of render box guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guideline-render-box.png @path %})

### Alignments

Alignments are shown with yellow arrows. These arrows show the vertical
and horizontal offsets of a widget relative to its parent.
For example this button’s icon is shown as being centered by the four arrows:

![Screenshot of alignment guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-alignment.png @path %})

> ### Paddings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Padding
```

> Paddings are shown with a semi-transparent blue background:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Padding is shown with a semi-transparent blue background:
```

![Screenshot of padding guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-padding.png @path %})

### Scroll views

Widgets with scrolling contents such as list views are shown with green arrows:

![Screenshot of scroll view guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-scroll.png @path %})

### Clipping

> Clippings, such as when using the [ClipRect widget][], are shown
> with a dashed pink line with a scissors icon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clipping, for example when using the [ClipRect widget][], are shown
with a dashed pink line with a scissors icon:
```

> [ClipRect widget]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ClipRect-class.html

Reviewer: This is a global change. Use the macros for URLs when available. (Defined in _config.yml at the top of the website repo.)

```suggestion
[ClipRect widget]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ClipRect-class.html
```

![Screenshot of clip guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-clip.png @path %})

### Spacers

Spacer widgets are shown with a grey background,

> such as this SizedBox without a child:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as this `SizedBox` without a child:
```

![Screenshot of spacer guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-spacer.png @path %})

> ## Show Baselines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Show baselines
```

This option makes all baselines visible.

> Baselines are horizontal lines that are used to position text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Baselines are horizontal lines used to position text.
```

This can be useful for checking whether text is precisely aligned vertically.

> For example, here the text baselines are slightly misaligned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the text baselines in the following screenshot are slightly misaligned:
```

![Screenshot with show baselines enabled]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-baseline.png @path %})

The [Baseline][] widget can be used to adjust baselines.

> [Baseline]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Baseline-class.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Baseline]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Baseline-class.html
```

> A line will be drawn on any [render box][] which has a baseline set.
> Alphabetic baselines are shown as green and ideographic as yellow.

Reviewer: Avoiding future tense. Also, the second sentence was not a full sentence, so joined it to the first.

```suggestion
A line is drawn on any [render box][] that has a baseline set;
alphabetic baselines are shown as green and ideographic as yellow.
```

You can also enable this in code:

```dart
debugPaintBaselinesEnabled = true;
```

> ## Highlight Repaints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Highlight repaints
```

This option draws a border around all [render boxes][]

> which changes color every time that box repaints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that changes color every time that box repaints.
```

> [render boxes]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/rendering/RenderBox-class.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[render boxes]: {{site.api}}/flutter/rendering/RenderBox-class.html
```

This rotating rainbow of colors is useful for finding parts of your app
that are repainting too often and potentially harming performance.

For example, one small animation could be causing an entire page
to repaint on every frame.

> Wrapping the animation in a [RepaintBoundary widget][] would limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrapping the animation in a [RepaintBoundary widget][] limits
```

the repainting to just the animation.

> [RepaintBoundary widget]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/RepaintBoundary-class.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[RepaintBoundary widget]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/RepaintBoundary-class.html
```

> Here the progress indicator causing its container to repaint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the progress indicator causes its container to repaint:
```

```dart
Scaffold(
  appBar: AppBar(title: Text('Repaint Example')),
  body: Center(child: CircularProgressIndicator()),
);
```

![Screen recording of a whole screen repainting]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-repaint-1.gif @path %})

Wrapping the progress indicator in a `RepaintBoundary` causes
only that section of the screen to repaint:

```dart
Scaffold(
  appBar: AppBar(title: Text('Repaint Example')),
  body: Center(
    child: RepaintBoundary(
      child: CircularProgressIndicator(),
    ),
  ),
);
```

![Screen recording of a just a progress indicator repainting]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-repaint-2.gif @path %})

`RepaintBoundary` widgets have tradeoffs. They can help with performance,
but they also have an overhead of creating a new canvas,
which uses additional memory.

You can also enable this option in code:

```dart
debugRepaintRainbowEnabled = true;
```

> ## Highlight Oversized Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Highlight oversized images
```

This option highlights images that are too large by both inverting their colors
and flipping them vertically:

![A highlighted oversized image]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-oversized.png @path %})

> These are images that are unnecessarily using more memory than required.
> For example, if a large 5MB image is being displayed at 100 width and height. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The highlighted images use more memory than is required;
for example, a large 5MB image displayed at 100 by 100 pixels.
```

> Such images can cause poor performance, especially on lower-end devices
> and when you have many images, such as in a list view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such images can cause poor performance, especially on lower-end devices
and when you have many images, as in a list view,
this performance hit can add up.
```

Information about each image is printed in the debug console:

```console
dash.png has a display size of 213×392 but a decode size of 2130×392, which uses an additional 2542KB.
```

> Images that are deemed too large if they use at least 128KB more than required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Images are deemed too large if they use at least 128KB more than required.
```

### Fixing images

Wherever possible, the best way to fix this problem is resizing
the image asset file so it’s smaller.

If this isn’t possible, you can use the `cacheHeight` and `cacheWidth`
parameters on the `Image` constructor:

```dart
Image.asset(
  'dash.png',
  cacheHeight: 213, 
  cacheWidth: 392
)
```

> These make the engine decode this image at the specified size,
> and help reduce memory usage (decoding and storage will still be more expensive
> than if the image asset itself was shrunk).
> The image will be rendered to the constraints of the layout or width and height
> regardless of these parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes the engine decode this image at the specified size,
and reduces memory usage (decoding and storage is still more expensive
than if the image asset itself was shrunk).
The image is rendered to the constraints of the layout or width and height
regardless of these parameters. 
```

This property can also be set in code:

```dart
debugInvertOversizedImage = true;
```

> ### Learn more:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More information

You can learn more at the following links:
```

> - [Flutter documentation: debugInvertOversizedImages](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/painting/debugInvertOversizedImages.html)
> 
> [render box]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/rendering/RenderBox-class.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Flutter documentation: debugInvertOversizedImages]({{site.api}}/flutter/painting/debugInvertOversizedImages.html)

[render box]: {{site.api}}/flutter/rendering/RenderBox-class.html
```

---
title: Visual debugging
description: A guide to Flutter's visual debugging functionality.
---

The Flutter Inspector provides several options for visually debugging your app.

> These are the options available from the inspector within the DevTools.

Reviewer 2: r/the DevTools/Flutter DevTools

## Slow animations

When enabled, this option runs animations 5 times slower for easier visual
inspection.
This can be useful if you want to carefully observe and tweak an animation that
doesn’t look quite right.

This can also be set in code:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/scheduler.dart' 

timeDilation = 5.0;
```
 
This slows the animations by 5x.

### See also

The following links provide more info.

* [Flutter documentation: timeDilation property]({{site.api}}/flutter/scheduler/timeDilation.html) 

### Example

![Screen recording showing normal animation speed]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-slow-animations-disabled.gif @path %})
![Screen recording showing slowed animation speed]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-slow-animations-enabled.gif @path %})

## Show layout guidelines

> This feature draws guidelines over your app that displays render boxes, alignments,

Reviewer 2: nit: r/that displays/that display

Author: Done

> This feature draws guidelines over your app that displays render boxes, alignments,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature draws guidelines over your app that display render boxes, alignments,
```

paddings, scroll views, clippings and spacers.

> This tool can be used for better understanding your layout, for instance
> finding unwanted paddings or understanding how widgets are being aligned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool can be used for better understanding your layout. For instance,
by finding unwanted padding or understanding widget alignment.
```

You can also enable this in code:

```dart
debugPaintSizeEnabled = true;
```

### Render boxes

> Widgets that draw to the screen create a [render box][]; they’re the 
> building blocks of Flutter layouts. They’re shown with a bright blue border:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets that draw to the screen create a [render box][], the 
building blocks of Flutter layouts. They’re shown with a bright blue border:
```

![Screenshot of render box guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guideline-render-box.png @path %})

### Alignments

Alignments are shown with yellow arrows. These arrows show the vertical
and horizontal offsets of a widget relative to its parent.

> For example this button’s icon is shown as being centered by the four arrows:

Reviewer 2: nit: comma after "For example"

![Screenshot of alignment guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-alignment.png @path %})

### Padding

Padding is shown with a semi-transparent blue background:

![Screenshot of padding guidelines]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-toggle-guidelines-padding.png @path %})

### Scroll views

> Widgets with scrolling contents such as list views are shown with green arrows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets with scrolling contents (such as list views) are shown with green arrows:
```

for example, a large 5MB image displayed at 100 by 100 pixels.

Such images can cause poor performance, especially on lower-end devices
and when you have many images, as in a list view,
this performance hit can add up.
Information about each image is printed in the debug console:

```console
dash.png has a display size of 213×392 but a decode size of 2130×392, which uses an additional 2542KB.
```

Images are deemed too large if they use at least 128KB more than required.

### Fixing images

Wherever possible, the best way to fix this problem is resizing
the image asset file so it’s smaller.

If this isn’t possible, you can use the `cacheHeight` and `cacheWidth`
parameters on the `Image` constructor:

```dart
Image.asset(
  'dash.png',
  cacheHeight: 213, 
  cacheWidth: 392
)
```

This makes the engine decode this image at the specified size,
and reduces memory usage (decoding and storage is still more expensive
than if the image asset itself was shrunk).
The image is rendered to the constraints of the layout or width and height
regardless of these parameters. 

This property can also be set in code:

```dart
debugInvertOversizedImage = true;
```

### More information

> You can learn more at the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more at the following link:
```
